AI, Ml, DL Algorithms

If label/target supervised learning e.g.mcqs
If no label unsupervised learning

Supervised learning two types:
Classification
Regression

Supervised learning is when a Model is built with prior knowledge maps, a method that is
referred to as “Training”.

Classification: Prediction is categories, which type
Is this email spam or not?
Is this a cat or a dog?
Pass or fail?

Regression: Continuous value actual data numerical value, how much
What is the price of this house?
What will the temperature be tomorrow?
How many sales next month?

Classification tells either the features are +ve or -ve e.g apple

we studied entropy in chemistry
to check entropy the impurity

like this in data impurity is measured in data using entropy

on this base we start the decision tree root node

If the sample is Completely Homogeneous, the entropy is Zero.

Entropy = 1 when it is Equally Divided or Heterogeneous:
all instances are split as equally as possible among all classes.

most pure will be on root node

in linear regression we get two columns in which one is dependent and the other is independent
linear regression is y=mx+c

y = x
y = 1/x

difference between y and y' is residual

Residuals are the differences between observed and predicted values
generated by a statistical model.

sse sum of squared errors

Gradient Descent is an optimization algorithm that
is used to find the values of the parameters of a
function (linear regression, logistic regression, etc.).

to see the global minima we have to go through whole data not to stop at the first 
cost compromise accuracy compromise 
less processing time
local minima, global minima

Learning Rate is defined as the step size taken to reach the minima or lowest point. This is
typically a small value that is evaluated and updated based on the behavior of the cost function.

If the learning rate is high, it results is large steps but also leads to risks of overshooting the
minima. At the same time, a low learning rate shows the small step sizes, which compromises
overall efficiency but gives the advantage of more precision.

to check dependency we use correlation x, y
we towards actual numeric value


correlation -1---0---1
sat relation with gpa is 0.64


